# NBA
'''
Out of all the American sports leagues the NBA seems to have most amount of predictability. Over the past three season (and possibly this one as well) the Warriors and Cavaliers have battled to capture the ultimate prize in basketball, the NBA Championship. And despite accusations of 'coasting' during the regular season both these teams have finished top three in their respective conferences the past 4 regular seasons. Because of the stability in the top of the NBA, I wondered how accurate a model would be that would attempt to use regular season stats to predict the champion. Now this model would have obvious drawbacks, the best regular season team does NOT equal the best team, the post-season is a whole different beast, a perfect example of this was the Cavaliers toppling the top-seeded Raptors this post-season. Another aspect this model could not account for is injuries, which often derail great teams playoffs run. However, by large we should expect the team that preformed the best in the regular season to carry that strong performance into the playoffs. Using Python I built a logistic regression model to predict the NBA Champion using data from the 2004-2005 season to the 2016-2017 season. However, before that I gathered, cleaned, and transformed the data, checked correlations between  different stats, and finally coded the logistic regression algorithm to create the model. So lets begin!

Continued at https://riteshkumarportfolio.wordpress.com/predicting-the-nba-champ
'''
